"1
RAMP ON-PNT® Methodology and Training
There are four (4) major Facilities Asset Management metrics that need to be understood and managed
within the ON-PNT® Enterprise Portal Solution.
 Condition Index (CI): Each individual system unit, area or section needs to have a condition
rating that is measurable. Note: For whole building or entire facility asset management
programs the System Unit CI can be rolled up to a building or site or portfolio wide SCI (System
Condition Index), i.e. all roofs or all HVAC building, site or portfolio wide. The SCIs are then
rolled up to a building or facility or entire portfolio FCI (Facility Condition Index).
 Useful Life: Every building system should have a known service life and every building type
should have a defined service life. Roofs, HVAC, elevators, pavements, lighting, interior finishes,
etc. typically have numerous capital renewals/replacements over the total service life of a
Facility or Building. The introduction of sustainable defect repair upgrade and
preventative/predictive maintenance programs can greatly impact the remaining service life of
the major system groups. The implementation of sustainable programs can extend the life of
these assets, reduce emergency spend, and minimize the frequency of capital renewals.
 Total Cost of Ownership: Every building system and every building type has a total cost of
ownership (TCO) that can be assigned to it. The TCO should include all costs of a building system
or complete facility, from cradle to grave. The TCO metric can be used to determine and
compare the overall life cycle costs of a specific facility type or major system group prior to
purchase, and/or used to evaluate different life extension programs that can lower the overall
TCO of a major system group or entire facility.
 Triage Score1: Triage is a French word meaning sorting. The Triage Score uses two performance
metrics: The Mission Dependency Index (MDI) ranking of buildings and Condition Index (CI)
referenced above. (The MDI supports and is consistent with all Federal Facility Asset
Management principles and has been recognized and endorsed by the General Services
Administration4, the National Academy of Sciences’ National Research Council, the Federal
Facilities Council and the Association of Higher Education Facility Officers (APPA)). The Triage
Score provides a quick and credible solution to the complex problem of ranking capital projects
and repair projects. The Triage Score process also can be used to screen-out projects that should
be deferred if they have little or no relevance to an organization’s mission.

-- 1 of 8 --

2
A. FAM (Facilities Asset Management) Industry Standards
1. CI (Condition Index):
a. Each roof record/section has a calculated CI, which establishes the Condition of the Roof
Section. The CI is calculated as follows:
i. Roof Defect Total Costs/Roof Replace Estimate + Annual CI (aging factor)
ii. Failed: 10% - 0%
iii. Very Bad: 36% - 10.01%
iv. Bad: 55% - 36.01%
v. Poor: 74% - 55.01%
vi. Fair: 89% - 74.01%
vii. Good: 98% - 89.01%
viii. Excellent: 100% - 98.01%
b. Failed and Very Bad roofs unrepairable and require replacement. (See definitions sheet)
2. Life Cycle and Useful Life:
a. SL (Service Life):
i. The average Service Life of a roof system, i.e. BUR-A (Built Up Roof-Asphalt and THERM-
PA (Thermoplastic Adhered) SL=19 Years. Each roof system type has an assigned SL,
which is based upon national averages.
b. TSL (Total Service Life):
i. The total service life of the roof asset, from year built/installed to projected
replacement.
ii. TSL-RM (Total Service Life Repairs and Maintenance) The TSL-RM is the total
service life of the roof asset, from year built/installed to projected replacement,
assuming current roof repairs and maintenance are completed.
iii. TSL-RPM (Total Service Life Repairs and Preventative Maintenance) The TSL-
RPM is the total service life of the roof asset, from year built/installed to
projected replacement, assuming current roof repairs are completed and
ongoing bi-annual roof preventative maintenance is performed.
c. RSL (Remaining Service Life):
i. RSL (Remaining Service Life): The remaining service life of the roof system
assessed in relation to current year.
ii. RSL-RM (Remaining Service Life with current Repairs and Maintenance): The
Remaining Service Life of roof system assessed in relation to current year
assuming current roof repairs and maintenance are completed.
iii. RSL-RPM (Remaining Service Life with Repairs and PM): The Remaining Service
Life of roof system assessed in relation to current year assuming current roof
repairs are completed and bi-annual preventative maintenance is implemented.
3. Total Cost of Ownership (TCO):
a. Annual TCO-TSL (Annual Total Cost of Ownership- Total Service Life):
i. The total annual cost of a roof asset/section over the TSL (Total Service Life) is
calculated by dividing the CRV (Current Replacement Value) + Historical Spend
(Owner provided repairs, maintenance, emergency costs, if any and if provided)

-- 2 of 8 --

3
by the TSL. The Annual TCO indicates the annual cost of the roof asset based on
current assessment assuming no repairs or maintenance are performed to
extend life.
b. Annual TCO-TSL-RM (Annual Total Cost of Ownership-Total Service Life Repair and
Maintained:
i. The total annual cost of a roof asset/section over the TSL-RM (Total Service Life-
Repair and Maintained) is calculated by dividing the CRV (Current Replacement
Value) + Historical Spend (Owner provided repairs, maintenance, emergency
costs, if any and if provided) + current Defect Repairs + current Maintenance at
all roof sections by the TSL-RM. The Annual TCO-RM indicates the annual cost of
the roof asset based on current assessment assuming current defect repairs are
completed and current maintenance at all roof sections is performed to extend
life.
c. Annual TCO-TSL-RPM (Annual Total Cost of Ownership-Total Service Life Repair and
PM):
i. The total annual cost of a roof asset/section over the TSL-RPM (Total Service
Life-Repair and Bi-Annual Preventative Maintenance) is calculated by dividing
the CRV (Current Replacement Value)+ Historical Spend (Owner provided
repairs, maintenance, emergency costs, if any and if provided) + current Defect
Repairs + Ongoing Bi-Annual Preventative Maintenance at all roof sections by
the TSL-RPM. The Annual TCO-RPM indicates the annual cost of the roof asset
based on current assessment assuming current defect repairs are completed
and ongoing bi-annual preventative maintenance is performed at all roof
sections is performed to extend life.
4. Triage Score:
a. The Triage Score is used to prioritize the capital roof replacements and defect repairs
portfolio wide and by site with budget constraint limits set. The Triage scoring combines
the CI (Condition Index) percentage with the level of building mission criticality, the MDI
(Mission Dependency Index) and factors in how far a roof asset is beyond its SL (Service
Life) should the roof assets have the same Triage Score.
i. Triage Score: 100-0. 100 = highest ranked roofs; 0 = lowest.
ii. MDI (Mission Dependency Index): 100-0. 100 = highest raked MC (Mission
Critical), 60 = middle ranked MD (Mission Dependent), 30 = lowest ranked NMD
(Non-Mission Dependent).
iii. CI (Condition Index) percentage: 100-0. 0 = highest ranked Failed roofs; 100 =
lowest ranked Excellent roofs.
iv. SL> Tiebreaker: Roofs with same Triage Score are further ranked by giving
greater priority to roof assets that are furthest beyond their system SL (Service
Life).
b. The Triage Score weights the MDI higher than the CI. Approximately 60/40.

-- 3 of 8 --

4
B. GIS (Geographic Information System):
a. GIS is used for data collection and for displaying assessment data in a geographical map
context.
b. Each site, building, roof section and defect has a latitude and longitude coordinate, which
can be viewed in GIS ON-PNT® Portal Maps or used to locate data while on site with the ON"
"1
Complex Facility Asset Management Made Simple
ON-PNT RAMP Definitions
Field Name Field Definition Field Description
Site Site Indicates name of Site location or Campus, etc...
Tech Area Technical Area NNSA technical area reference
MDI Mission Dependency Index Building’s Mission Dependency Index (MC, MD, NMD)
MDI No Mission Dependency Index Building’s Mission Dependency Index (MC=1, MD=2, NMD=3. if
blank- MD=2)
Security Access Security Access Building’s Security Access Level (PPA, LA, PA, MAA.)
Security Access
No Security Access Building’s Security Access Level (PPA=1, LA=2, PA=3, MAA=4. If
blank-LA=2)
Survey
Category Survey Category Identifies whether roof survey is a New Survey or a Re-Survey.
Building No Building Number The Building Number is listed as provided by each Site.
Building ID Building ID
The Building ID sets a unique Building ID by concatenating the Site
acronym and the Building No. (Note: Some sites have the same
building number and this field allows for setting a unique Building
ID.
DD Decommission and
Demolition
The Decommission and Demolition Field is a yes/no field
indicating if this Building is set for demolition. Default is set to
“No”. Data is provided by the Sites.
TBA To Be Assessed
The TBA yes/no field by default is set to “Yes”. If Owner does not
want Technical Assurance to assess the roof and the building is
not on the DD List, then TBA will be recorded “No”
ROOFID_GIS Roof ID Geographic
Information System
Unique “Portfolio” wide Roof ID Geographic Information System
concatenated as follows: Site acronym-Tech Area-Building No-
Roof Section
Roof ID Roof Identification Unique “Site” Roof ID based concatenated as follows: Tech Area-
Building No-Roof Section
Legacy_ID Incumbents Roof ID Incumbents previously used Roof ID (Not unique)
Roof Section Roof Section The Roof Section sets a Roof Section ID per each building roof
area.
Uniformat Uniformat Code
All roof records are set to Uniformat Code: B3010 Roof Coverings.
This is the standard Uniformat Code used for roof systems and
can be connected to other systems, i.e. Builder, etc...
Roof System Roof System
The Roof System provides a roof system acronym, which
identifies the type of roof system per Roof Section. (See Roof
System definition sheet)
Roof System
Descrip Roof System Description The Roof System Description provides the spelled out name of the
roof system type.
Assessor Assessor The Assessor indicates which Technical Assurance field staff
member assessed the specific roof asset/section.
Assessment
Date Assessment Date The Assessment Date lists the date the Roof Assessor selected
when assessing the roof section.
SL Service Life The average Service Life of selected roof system
SF Square Feet The Square Feet of each roof section is recorded and listed.

-- 1 of 8 --

2
Complex Facility Asset Management Made Simple
Field Name Field Definition Field Description
Year Built Year Built
The Year Built lists the year the roof was originally installed or last
replaced. (Note: Year Built nomenclature is used for roofs instead
of year replaced, because the field title can be used for many
facility systems.)
Yr Built Est Year Built Estimate Indicates if the roof install year is known and recorded or
estimated in the field. Yes/No field; Yes=Estimated.
Difficulty Difficulty Degree of roof replacement work difficulty, Difficult, Normal,
Easy.
SF Price Square Foot Price Existing roof system selected is assigned a SF Unit Price
Roof Replace
Est Roof Replacement Est The Roof Replacement Estimate is calculated by multiplying the
SF by the SF Price
Roof Security
Mult Roof Security Multiplier
The Roof Section Multiplier sets a summing multiplier off of the
Roof Replacement Estimate depending on the level of building
security access (1-4). Higher the security the higher the multiplier.
General
Conditions
Costs
General Conditions Costs
The General Contractor Costs sets a percentage multiplier to the
Roof Security Multiplier to cover project mobilization and
demobilization, environmental, lightning protection and other
contractor project costs not included in roof replace bid amount.
Roof Small SF
Mult
Roof Small Square Feet
Multiplier
Roof Sections under 1000 SF are provided an additional
percentage multiplier set with 3 different amounts; 999-333, 665-
333, 332-0.
CRV Current Replacement Value
The Current Replacement Value is the total roof replacement
estimate by adding together the Roof Section Multiplier + GC
Costs + Roof Small SF Multiplier.
Roof Design-CM
Fees
Roof Design and
Construction Management
Fees
The Roof Design and Construction Management Fees sets a
percentage multiplier based on an average project to the CRV.
Roof Project
Budget Roof Project Budget The Roof Project Budget adds the CRV and Roof Design-CM Fees
to provide a Total Project Budget cost estimate.
Roof Defects-
Site Name Roof Defects-Site acronym
Roof Defects per Site and per roof section are identified,
quantified, and unit cost estimated. (See Roof Defects definition
sheet)
Roof Defects
Total Cost Roof Defects Total Cost The sum of current roof defect repairs per roof section.
Maint Maintenance
The current maintenance costs to be performed on each roof
section. Current maintenance includes routine maintenance
cleaning and upkeep, a full and detailed roof inspection, and
completion of light duty touch up repairs.
PM-Annual PM Annual
Annual cost of ongoing roof preventative maintenance performed
once a year on each roof section per Site. PM includes annual
routine maintenance cleaning and upkeep, a full and detailed roof
inspection, and completion of light duty touch up repairs. Some
time may be available for emergency leak service and light repair
work with once a year RPM Program, but this could be limited.

-- 2 of 8 --

3
Complex Facility Asset Management Made Simple
Field Name Field Definition Field Description
PM Bi-Annual PM Bi-Annual
Annual cost of ongoing roof preventative maintenance performed
twice a year on each roof section per Site. PM includes bi-annual
routine maintenance cleaning and upkeep, a full and detailed roof
inspection, and completion of light duty touch up repairs. Bi-
Annual PM will also afford the Sites to have emergency leak
service and light repairs performed within the boundaries of the
RPM Program.
Historical
Spend Historical Spend
Historical spend data provided by building Owner, i.e. historical
emergency spend, or O&M dollars, etc. (Note: To date we have
not received this data from the Sites)
Total RSL-PM
Bi-Annual
Total Remaining Service
Life Preventative
Maintenance Bi-Annual
Costs
The total amount of preventative maintenance cost over the
remaining service life of the roof assets within the RPM Roof
Sustainability Program. Provides total amount for B-Annual PM
over life of roof asset within RPM Program.
CI Condition Index
Condition Index is established by dividing the amount of current
roof defects into the Roof Replace Estimate plus Annual CI age
percentage * (Current Year-Year Built). The calculation is then
scaled from 100% Excellent to 0% Failed.
Condition Condition
The Condition of each roof section is set by the CI percentage.
Excellent: New roof, limited maintenance. Good: Like new, no
repairs and regular maintenance. Fair: Minor repairs and current
maintenance. Poor: Aged roof with minor to major repairs and
current maintenance. Bad: Aged and/or deteriorated roof
requiring major repairs or complete restoration or replacement.
Very Bad: Replace roof as soon as possible. Failed Replace roof
now.
SOW Scope of Work
The general Scope of Work is set based on the roofs condition.
(Failed or Very Bad=Replace, Bad=Restore or Replace,
Poor=Repair, Fair=Repair and Maint, Excellent or Good=Maint.)
PI Performance Indicator
The Performance Indicator quickly references condition of roof
section through color coding. Green-Excellent, Light Green-Good,
Lightest Green-Fair, Yellow-Poor, Orange-Bad, Light Red/Brown-
Very Bad, Red-Failed.
Adjusted TSL-
RM
Adjusted Total Service Life-
Repair"